Now in this module we're going to introduce you to configuring spring controllers.
What we need to do is associate a controller method with a request path.
Thus when spring gets requests on a specific path a specific controller method will get invoked.
Now in our example what would you want the controller to do is go to the database get a list of books
and return it over to the view.
Now to configure a controller in spring we're going to agitate the class with the controller annotation.
This will tell spring to manage that class as the spring being and that it is a Spring MVC controller.
Notice set up the request path.
We are gonna use the annotation request math mapping to tell spring to associate a path with a controller
method.
In this module we are just going to look at configuring the controller to return Dad to the view.
The next video we're going to take a look at the actual view layer so jump over to Intelligence now
and show you how to wire up a spring controller.
All right we're going to take a look at setting up a spring controller back in Intel J on our project
that we just worked on and what we want to do.
It's a good convention to follow it's not an official convention but most people or many people do I
should say it does create a pat or a new package.
For the controllers.
So just a good organizational habit let's call it and we'll just call it controller
and what I'm going to do is create a a new Java class called book controller
and the first thing we want to do is annotated with at controller.
So this is what does the registration of the class in spring so spring is gonna detect this as a spring
bean and create the class whereas and wired into the spring context
and what we want to do is return a string of The View name
and to this what we want to do is pass in the model
so spring well because we're specifying this as as a model spring will pass and the model objects that
remember the model view controller paradigm MVC.
So by and by by passing in the model which is an interface spring will pass in the implementation of
it at runtime when this controller method is invoked.
Next we want to associate this with the book's path
so we'll use request mapping
and just say books.
So this will get invoked there whenever a request comes in to slash books on our our web application.
Now we won't get the repository
ad in a constructor for the book repository.
And so when spring creates us it's going to automatically inject the instance of the book repository
we want to say here is modeled ad we're going gonna add an attribute.
So what.
What's happening here on line 23 is we're taking the model that gets passed in and we're going to add
an attribute called books.
So there's going to be the list of books coming out of the book repository.
So this is going to tell spring data JPA to go out and get a list of books from the database and spring
NBC is going to associate that list which is our model just a list of the photos from the database and
that that would be passed onto our view.
Now the last thing that we needed
is return a String and we're going to call it books.
And what that's going to do is associate it with a timely view.
So we're just giving it the view name.
Now it's going to when we get to the time leaf part it's going to look things up.
So just to recap everything that I did here is I created a controller called Book controller I annotated
there on 9/11 with the controller annotation and this tells it that it's a spring bean.
So it's now going to be a spring manage component.
And because I'm specifying the constructor they're online line sixteen that takes in a book repository
spring will auto wire that end for us automatically we'll get a instance there and now on line 20 the
request mapping of books.
So when we'll get a request that comes into the book CRL this method is gonna get invoked the spring
framework that spring MVC is going to pass and an instance of the model and online twenty three we're
saying had an attribute to the model called books and that's going to be a list of books out of the
book repository.
So underneath the covers book repositories using spring data JPA it's going to use hibernate to go out
and get a list of books out of our database.
And then finally on line 25 we're returning the string books which is going to tell Spring MVC to associate
this with a view called books and in the next video we're going to get into and take a look at the actual
creation of the books view.
Now what you saw me create there was a very simple Spring MVC controller.
This is about as simple as they come now.
Going forward in the course we are going to get into Spring MVC a lot more in depth just going through
a very simple example here to get your feet wet with Spring MVC so further down in the course we're
definitely going to explore spring controllers more because there's a lot more to it.
But for now this is just a very simple example.
All we want to do is display a list of books on the web page and in the next video we're going to show
you the view technology so we can get that web page displayed.